Meetup page
  http://www.meetup.com/denverbiolabs/events/230692254/

Presenters
  Megan Basila
  Eldon Chou
  From the company "dharmacon", they sponsors Denver BioLabs iGEM team <3
  Dharmacon, part of GE HealthcareWebsiteDirections
  http://dharmacon.gelifesciences.com/

Terms to lookup:
  siRNA: maybe "synthesized RNA"
  miRNA:
  shRNA:
  "specificity-enhanced siRNA:
  cDNA:
  ORF:
  GEHC Dharmacon Gene Modulation
    Provides tools (I think for scientists to study shit)
  crRNA: CRISPR RNA
  crtrRNA: CRISPR tracer hybrid RNA
  Pyogenes:
  anneal: maybe the opposite of helicase?
  Functional RNA knockout:
  PSMD8
  phenotypic assay
  GFP intensity
  INDEL: a molecular biology term for the insertion or the deletion of bases in the DNA of an organism
  Transfect: infect (a cell) with free nucleic acid.
             introduce (genetic material) by transfection.
  Stepwise unwinding
  NHEJ: Non Homologous End joining
  HDR:  Homology directed repair
  Homology: the state of having the same or similar relation, relative position, or structure: many proteins show homology across their whole length | a region of h
  RFLP: Restriction Fragment Length Polymorphism
  Restriction enzyme: helicase?
  PAM: not sure, but they set it to the nucleotides "GGG"
  in vivo:
  GFP: Green Flourescent Protein
  acetylation:

  "Precise gene editing using HDR"
  "The longer your homology arm the better" (they settled on 1000, apparently this thing goes on the 3' end)
  tons of others I just missed, this fella goes quuuuuick >.<
  There is apparetnly a "recycle bin" for proteins, to reuse their amino acids.
    Can't tell if this is a specific noun, or a general description for the idea that the amino acids will make their way back into the supply

------

What is it?
  A mechanism of adaptive immunity in bacteria and "archaea"

------

Use in humans
  Initial papers:
  "A programmable dual rna guided dna endonuclease in adaptive bacterial immunity"
  "RNA guided human genome engineering via cas9"
  "multiple... " dude goes fkn fast

Verification of edit:
  Cleave it at the site of your insertion, if it doesn't cleave, the insertion wasn't there
  Sanger sequencing
  ?? blot
  ?? assay

Something about constructing guie RNA
  S pyogenies (not sure what this is, but it keeps popping up)
  any base and then 2 "G"s in a row

Some result they found
  "Creation of indels does not always result in functional knockout"
  Functional gene distribution depends on gene position & sequence
  Factors other than locaation affect the functionality of guide RNA
  important design considerations for guide RNA:
    cut site location
    sequence around cut site
    sequence within/around PAM
    GC content
    strand preference

Specificity:
  goal is to identify possible off-targets
  "The specificity tool is available online"

They have a paper that might go slower, but I didn't get it down before he switched the slide
  journal of biotechnology
  systematic analytics of CRISPR cas9...

-----

Applications

Interesting Publications
    CRISPR-Cas9 mediated efficient PD-1 disruption on human primary T cells from cancer patients
      http://www.nature.com/articles/srep20070
      Knock out the PD-1 gene
    Elimination of HIV-1 Genomes from Human T-lymphoid Cells by CRISPR/Cas9 Gene Editing
      http://www.nature.com/articles/srep22555
      They are trying to eliminate the entire HIV genome
    Naiive induced pluripotent stem cells generated from beta-thalassemia fibroblasts allow efficient gene correction with CRISPR/Cas9
      Used it to correct a gene that causes some disease
    In vivo gene editing in dystrophic mouse muscle and muscle stem cells
      apparently different animals model different facets of human physiology,
      so depending on what you're trying to accomplish, you might test it on some animal (here, a mouse)
    Microinjection of zebrafish embryos using Dharmacon Edit-R Cas9 Nuclease mRNA, Synthetic crRNA and tracrRNA for genome engineering
      This one used zebrafish
    "Systematic analysis of crispr-cas9 mismatch tolerance reveals low levels of off-target activity"
      allows for systematic analysis of rules for off-targeting
HDR
  Tagging
  Insert a ?(flourescent reporter)? into a protein so you can track it around the cell
  Flourescent reporters
    TurboGFP green
    ACTB     red
    merge    blue

"There's lots of applications for deactivated Cas9 / dead Cas9"
  It can't cleave the nucleotide, but it can recruit transcription factors which allow it to turn things up / down rather than just on / off

Cpf1 is a different type of Cas protein
  it uses a single crispr molecule, doesn't require a tracer
  They don't work in mamals (b/c eukaryote?)

"30-40% editing success is good"

-----

Musings
  Could you create a protein with more featueres? eg evolution of the text editor (maybe packaging replacement DNA along with it?)
  Apparently Cas9 doesn't always work better.
    Presumbly packaging all of the behaviour together causes it to be too large.
    Performing the different operations with different components may work better (SOA! :P)

Questions
  Why don't these insertions affect the functionality of the protein?
    Apparently there's a lot of places you could insert an amino acid without affecting the behaviour of the protein
    Sort of like noops (this assumes you insert a multiple of 3 nucleotides so you don't offset the nucleotides and affect future codons)
  Seriously, wtf is 3' and 5'?
