https://mail.google.com/mail/u/0/#inbox/156801e98fc542c3


Hi, Anthony,

During the wait for admission, I made a pretty aggressive schedule for how to progress through Bio Engineering. Despite the aggression, It would take three and a half years, and I'd have to skip classes I'd want to take because I've taken them already and there is a dependency progression that I would be delaying / expense. The classes I want to sign up for, I wouldn't be able to take until early in the third year, due to the course dependencies. Even with in state tuition, it would have cost about $90k (assuming I lived much more conservatively than I've become acclimated to). Those are some very big sacrifices,

Since I was already doing the things I wanted to learn about at Denver Biolabs, and Bio Engineering didn't make sense, I figured I'd just take the Inworks minor and some classes I was interested in on the side (primarily I was thinking math and chemistry). Denver Biolabs was a compelling experience, three days after I first became excited they let me go in, didn't mind my utter incompetence, and let me clone and do various other year 3 things from the Bio Engineering program. They even ran it again, and the second time, after a lot of studying, I was able to understand what I was doing and why, was able to keep it all in my head, and even managed to succeed! But I eventually realized that Denver Biolabs is not Inworks, and the minor only offered three courses related to biology. The other courses seem interesting too, but I think I've already figured out the programming aspects (eg already worked through the Elements of Computing Systems, one of their courses), and many of the lessons behind Human Centered Design (the name was new, but the ideas were not). Being part of CU, their courses are equivalently expensive, and I have some minor ideological incongruence (or not, one could argue that my disagreement is pedantic, and I was only able to acquire an older version of their white paper, which mentions that "the actual Inworks has already evolved beyond its envisioning document").

Really, if CU made Denver Biolabs a class, I'd happily take that, even with the alarming cost of tuition. Denver Biolabs' workshops and my congruence with Inworks' pedagogical opinions (and a confusion where I thought that the UN's goals were Inworks' goals) are the reasons I became interested in attending CU.

So, I just don't see any obvious way to make CU the right choice.

What are my alternatives? Well, I applied to http://bio.academany.org/ which would be $5k, and got a friend to agree to let me stay in their NYC guest room for free during the 5 months of the class. But I just found out, today, that the NYC site won't participate this year. So, I don't know. I've got a lead in Houston for a lady who taught Chemistry for 40 years and then retired. I'm in Chicago right now, there's a hacker space out here with a scanning electron microscope, and I'm pretty sure I've got at least 6 months worth of friends with couches. I could try to come back and strike up an independent deal with Denver Biolabs/Inworks, just pay them to mostly ignore me as I work through some text books, try to contribute to their community and pay more than I cost, they seem like they'd be open to that sort of thing. I could move back in with my folks for 4 months or so before they got annoyed by the loss of solitude, I like them and I concentrate well there, could probably get through all of Calc (given that I've done it once before) and maybe Diff Eq or Linear Equations, maybe play with neural networks, which are the second most interesting thing I can think of, after Biology.

I don't know, it'd be nice to have a bit more structure than I do at present (I should obviously just go buy a book and start working through it), but from here, I don't see any viable way for CU to be the right decision for me. Nonetheless, and even if this email was sent by an automated system, I do appreciate your following up with the application.

Cheers
-Josh
